---
title: I'm building EpicWeb.dev
date: 2022-09-07
description:
  I've struck out on my own again to focus on my most ambitious project yet.
categories:
  - career
meta:
  keywords:
    - react
    - remix
    - education
    - career
    - web
bannerCloudinaryId: unsplash/photo-1639262498805-17c7dc422d37
bannerAlt:
  Futuristic spaceship flying through the sky from night-time blue on the left
  to streaks of red lines on the right.
bannerCredit: Photo by [Ivan Diaz](https://unsplash.com/photos/vED-G-klEjo)
---

I want to take everything I know about building web applications and package it
up into a consumable form. For years I've envisioned a "KCD.edu" sort of site
where I teach the 99% of skills every web developer shares. I've always wanted
to help get people from "I want to learn to program" to "I can build and
maintain a web application". After building
[TestingJavaScript.com](https://testingjavascript.com) and
[EpicReact.dev](https://epicreact.dev), I think I'm ready to take this on.

And I'd like to tell you a bit about what I'm thinking for this project and how
you can participate in it while I work on it.

<callout-warning class="aside">
  I'm about to explain some plans I have in place. It's important that you
  understand plans are not promises and can (and do) change. But I think it's
  fun to share my early plans with you, so I'm going to. Just take them with a
  grain of salt.
</callout-warning>

First off, if you've not gone through TestingJavaScript or EpicReact, you may
not appreciate the level of quality and the amount of content I bring to courses
like this. People describe EpicReact.dev as a university-level course. It really
should take weeks to get through all that material properly. If you're curious,
you can learn more about how I teach in my blog post
["How I Teach"](/blog/how-i-teach).

With that in mind, [EpicWeb.dev](https://epicweb.dev) will be at least two times
bigger than EpicReact.dev. Better content quality (I'm always working on
improving my skills as a teacher) and _much_ more concepts covered.
Additionally, our tools have come a long way in the last two years, so I'll be
able to help you become capable of _more_ in _less_ time.

I plan on having a lot of different forms of content as a part of
[EpicWeb.dev](https://epicweb.dev). Podcasts, interviews, blog posts, talks,
etc. The primary form of material will be exercise-focused workshops. A _lot_ of
them. The material will be separated into chunks of what I can teach in a single
day of about 6 hours if I were teaching it to you in person (which will be
further separated into about 6-9 exercises). Several of the workshops will be
linear (recommended to be taken one after the other) while others will be
consumable at any point (with the right prerequisites).

Through all the workshops, we're going to be focusing on building an app
together. Each workshop will focus on a specific set of learning outcomes which
you will achieve by building further on the app in some aspect. When we're
finished with the app, you'll have developed the primary skills shared by web
developers.

The first thing I need to do is start building the app. Typically how I develop
workshop material is I build the finished version first and then remove the
necessary bits that are relevant to what you're going to learn. When building
something this large, I need to make sure that the finished version is capable
of teaching all the required skills you need to learn. So the app itself is
quite ambitious. I already have a pretty solid idea of what it will be, but I
don't think I'll share that quite yet üòâ Let's just say it'll be **Epic** üåå.

Just watching me develop the app from scratch could be quite interesting. This
is why **I'm planning on live streaming all of my development of the app.**
[Subscribe to my YouTube channel](https://kcd.im/YouTube) to watch the process
unfold. [I'll be live streaming **a LOT**](/live) in the coming months as I
develop this app. You can also [join the KCD Community on Discord](/discord) to
chat about the app and provide ideas and feedback.

I also plan on bringing on (and paying) experts to review and provide feedback
on different aspects of what I've built. This will be recorded and provided as
part of the overall product. I'm really looking forward to that bit.

Clearly, this will take quite a bit of time. Just building the app that we're
going to build together will take a lot of effort. And unlike EpicReact.dev,
because I want to help you learn how to build the full web application, there
will be a backend component to this as well. Additionally, when it's all
finished, I want people to be able to approach this with the only pre-requisite
being that they can read and type.

On top of that, I don't let people build my content for me. I do sometimes have
people help a bit, but for the vast majority of the material, I need to be the
one to develop it and practice delivering it before ultimate recording it
myself. If I waited to release anything until the whole thing was finished we'd
be waiting for quite some time.

So I'm going to be releasing this in chunks. Once the app is finished, I'll
start creating the workshops. I'm not 100% certain which set of workshops will
be released first, but I can say that I plan on making the "learn to program"
workshops will _not_ come first. This is because I need to build this in a way
that's sustainable and I don't plan on charging anything for those. I don't like
the idea of making money on people's hopes and dreams. I like the idea of making
money off your boss buying the course _much_ better.

So the first set of workshops will likely be more advanced, and then I'll work
backwards to the more beginner material. This may feel a little odd, but keep in
mind that this is all pursuant to the ultimate goal of having a series of
workshops that will take you from 0 to 100, so when it's all finished we'll be
in a good spot. It'll just take a while to get there.

As usual, I won't actually start recording the workshop videos until after I've
actually delivered the workshops a few times. So stay tuned for tickets to those
workshops becoming available soon.

I couldn't be more excited about this. I'm bursting with ideas and excitement
around it.

If you'd like to keep up-to-date, please sign up here:

<SubscribeForm
  formId="epicweb-blog-post"
  convertKitTagId="3292661"
  convertKitFormId="3547851"
/>

I'm really excited to turn you into an [EpicWeb.dev üåå](https://epicweb.dev)

## FAQ

**When will this be released?**

This is going to be an _enormous_ series of workshops and that will take a lot
of time to build. Because of this I'm planning on releasing them in chunks
starting with the more advanced material first and working backward to the more
beginner material. I'm hoping to release the first chunk sometime
mid-to-late 2023. I expect the entire thing to be finished by the end of 2024.

**What's the difference between a plan and a promise?**

A promise is something you pay for. A plan is something I share with you because
I like building in public. Until you've paid for it, consider everything I say
to be plans, not promises üòÖ

**How much will it cost?**

I don't know yet. I definitely plan for there to be quite a bit of material that
is offered for free though, especially the beginner material. I don't want to
make money on people's hopes and dreams ‚≠ê

**Will you cover "x"?**

As explained in the blog post above, I'm building a fullstack, production-scale
web app. If a topic is necessary information for that app, then I will cover it.
If it's not, then I will not. Part of what people pay for in education are
opinions, so I'll not be sharing multiple frameworks or provide options for how
to do the same thing.

But this thing is _huge_ and I'll cover a LOT of stuff. When it's finished, I
hope that someone with no knowledge of programming will be able to start and
successfully complete all the material. So, no pre-requisite technical knowledge
required. That's a lot of ground to cover üòÖ
